DIFFERENCE BETWEEN HTTP1.1 VS HTTP2

HTTP1.1:
The World Wide Web(WWW), HTTP is a application protocol used for exchanging basic information between a client computer and a local or remote web server.
HTTP/1.1 transfers methods like GET and POST into plain-text messages.
In HTTP/1.0, the client had to break and remake the TCP connection with every new request, a costly affair in terms of both time and resources.
This receive window is advertised in a signal known as an ACK packet, which is the data packet that the receiver sends to acknowledge that it received the opening signal. If this advertised receive window size is zero, the sender will send no more data until the client clears its internal buffer and then requests to resume data transmission.
The developer knows in advance which additional resources the client machine will need to render the page, they can use a technique called resource inlining to include the required resource directly within the HTML document that the server sends in response to the initial GET request. For example, if a client needs a specific CSS file to render a page, inlining that CSS file will provide the client with the needed resource before it asks for it, reducing the total number of requests that the client must send.
The header component of a message, however, is always sent as plain text. Although each header is quite small, the burden of this uncompressed data weighs heavier and heavier on the connection as more requests are made, particularly penalizing complicated, API-heavy web applications that require many different resources and thus many different resource requests. Additionally, the use of cookies can sometimes make headers much larger, increasing the need for some kind of compression.






HTTP2:
The SPDY protocol, developed primarily at Google with the intention of reducing web page load latency by using techniques such as compression, multiplexing, and prioritization.This protocol served as a template for HTTP/2 when the Hypertext Transfer Protocol working group httpbis of the IETF (Internet Engineering Task Force) put the standard together.
HTTP/2 transfers methods like GET and POST into binary, allowing for significantly different delivery model possibilities.
In HTTP/2, the binary framing layer encodes requests/responses and cuts them up into smaller packets of information, greatly increasing the flexibility of data transfer.
HTTP/2 solves this problem by allowing the client and server to implement their own flow controls, rather than relying on the transport layer. The application layer communicates the available buffer space, allowing the client and server to set the receive window on the level of the multiplexed streams. This fine-scale flow control can be modified or maintained after the initial connection via a WINDOW_UPDATE frame.
HTTP/2 enables multiple concurrent responses to a client’s initial GET request, a server can send a resource to a client along with the requested HTML page, providing the resource before the client asks for it. This process is called server push. In this way, an HTTP/2 connection can accomplish the same goal of resource inlining while maintaining the separation between the pushed resource and the document.
The server sends a PUSH_PROMISE frame to inform the client that it is going to push a resource. This frame includes only the header of the message, and allows the client to know ahead of time which resource the server will push. If it already has the resource cached, the client can decline the push by sending a RST_STREAM frame in response. The PUSH_PROMISE frame also saves the client from sending a duplicate request to the server, since it knows which resources the server is going to push.
One of the themes that has come up again and again in HTTP/2 is its ability to use the binary framing layer to exhibit greater control over finer detail. The same is true when it comes to header compression. HTTP/2 can split headers from their data, resulting in a header frame and a data frame. The HTTP/2-specific compression program HPACK can then compress this header frame. This algorithm can encode the header metadata using Huffman coding, thereby greatly decreasing its size. Additionally, HPACK can keep track of previously conveyed metadata fields and further compress them according to a dynamically altered index shared between the client and the server.
